well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we're gonna talk about a
question i got um
because it kind of threw me through a
loop pretty thought provoking
actually when you really get down to it
um it was about systems of government
and it was trying to determine
if there was a uh
a comparable system to social democracy
on the other side and basically
the idea of the question was i
understand that social
democracy is kind of a blend of
socialism and capitalism it's socialism
light
is there something on the other side is
there something in the right wing
that is a blend
between normal capitalism normal western
governments as we know it
and fascism
leads to an interesting place so
we've got our list the one we've been
using on this channel which is
uh put out by lawrence britt i think is
his name 14 characteristics
of fascism to be clear i use this one
because
it is it tends to speak to americans
more
it's more practical there are other
lists
that break down the characteristics
there's one by umberto echo
but this is more practical rather than
philosophical
so it's the one that i tend to use if
you really want to get into the subject
you might want to look at the others too
okay so the first one is powerful and
continuing
nationalism now if you're looking at a
light
version you would just kind of lighten
it up so maybe you don't have
the marches and parades all the time
but you have like flags everywhere
so much so that it kind of loses meaning
becomes more like a bumper sticker a
sports team logo
than a display of the nation
it's something that everybody feels is
their
symbol disdain for the recognition of
human rights
so you want to lighten it up maybe it's
not overt
you know maybe it's not legislated that
people don't have human rights
however if you know somebody that's
accused of a crime gets roughed up a
little bit
nobody's going to cry over it you know
in this case it's going to be more de
facto it's going to be stuff that
just happens rather than it being
institutionalized
identification of enemies and scapegoats
is a unifying cause
now when you're talking about the overt
version of this it's
typically an internal enemy
that they get scapegoated if
it's a light version it would probably
be external
you know well the ones of that group
that are inside the country
they're different they're okay but we're
gonna all rally around the idea
that those on the other side of the line
on the map they're bad
supremacy of the military so in a light
version you could imagine that
rather than it just basically having
control of the entire government
it uh it
maybe has a place of honor that is
you know really revered and probably
gets the biggest share of the budget
rampant sexism again this would be
something that's a de facto
it's a male-dominated society but
there's not legislation
that backs up a whole lot of it it's
just
the way it is because tradition
is also a characteristic that uh
goes along with this system but that
gets into the philosophical list
controlled mass media so
rather than it being overt and
the government just basically telling
the news organizations what to say
maybe it's just more collusion maybe
it's more of the media
parroting the government talking points
so they can get access
and so everybody's on the same page
again it's just de facto it's just the
way it is in practice
rather than something that's
institutionalized
obsession with national security
in regimes like this i don't think you
would find
um a light version i think you would
still have a maze
of agencies that were devoted to
national security and anytime the
government needed something done
that's the card they would pull because
they would have that
that reverence for the military already
established
so they'd be able to gain compliance
from the population by kind of pulling
that card
we need to do this so we don't have to
send our troops over there
we just need you to comply and do what
we ask it's going to keep you safe
religion and government are intertwined
again they're going to want to keep up
the facade
of some form of liberal democrat
democracy
so it probably wouldn't be legislation
it wouldn't be institutionalized
but there would be like little rituals
to show that you were on the right team
maybe you
swear in on a holy text when you take
office
you know there'd be little things that
you would do to demonstrate that
you were one of the good guys you were
part of the club
corporate power is protected and that's
one of the ones on this list that i
really object to
in the overt form it's not protected
it's blended
the government has a lot of control
direct control
of corporate power in that system
if you're just talking about corporate
power being protected it's what you have
in the united states
i mean that that's what it is the the
government looks out for corporate
interest for the sake of the economy
and that's how it gets framed but it's
also for their own personal benefit
labor power is suppressed it probably
wouldn't be as brutal
as you find in the over regimes it would
be more
legislation that just undermines
collective bargaining
makes it harder to unionize and just
undercuts the rights of the worker
disdain for intellectuals in the arts
so it probably wouldn't be open
hostility
it would just be
something that they didn't encourage
maybe they don't fund art
in school they don't teach the
appreciation of it
and they don't encourage the youth to be
intellectual so it just goes by the
wayside on itself
all all by itself there's no reason for
the government to
push against it too hard they're just
going to let it fade out
obsession with crime and punishment so
you'd probably have a huge prison
population in a regime
operating under a blend like this
rampant cronyism and corruption
so what you'd have is like no bid
contracts
you'd have government officials giving
[Music]
jobs and construction contracts to their
cousins and stuff like that
that's what you'd find again it wouldn't
be overt
the last one is fraudulent elections you
probably wouldn't see any of this
not much because they'd want to keep up
the facade
that it isn't one of those regimes
so it would just be controlled in a
different manner
perhaps the major parties
would keep everything in house
and really only give you a couple
options
but they'd want to keep that one at
least the appearance
of legitimate elections
sounds really familiar doesn't it
yeah if you want to know what fascism
light looks like
look out the window the united states
is the blend
um that's one of the reasons it's so
important that we watch
for the creep towards the overt
real thing because we're already really
close to it
we've talked about it before on this
channel even our
left wing party in the united states
is center right because the country is
that far right to begin with
if you're talking about a blend between
fascism
and the idea of western liberal
democracy
it's the us
that that's where we're at already we
wouldn't need to go anywhere
it already exists um
again i think it's an interesting little
thought exercise and something i'd never
thought of before
nobody's ever asked um that's probably
one of the biggest
dangers to the united states as a whole
is the creep that direction further and
further right
to an authoritarian rule
especially when it's done slowly
and it's this soft form of it that we
don't even realize is there so much so
that we don't even think about it
because it's just
the way it is it's just tradition it's
de facto
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day